Dear Editors,

I would like to submit, on behalf of my co-authors, a proposal for an opinion
paper entitled “Public preprints in ecology and evolution” for consideration
in X. The manuscript is authored by myself, Ethan White, Timothée Poisot, ...,
and Dominique Gravel.

Public preprint servers such as arXiv.org have become central to the scientific
process in fields such as physics, mathematics, and economics. These preprint
servers allow researchers to make their research rapidly available to the
broader community prior to peer review, which facilitates discussion, review,
and rapid communication of scientific results. Preprints are
increasingly seen as an important component of open science, because the
research can be discussed by the scientific community as soon as it is
finished, instead of being effectively hidden until officially published.
However, in contrast to toher disciplines, the field of biology has effectively
no preprint culture, with the exception of small
pockets of primarily highly quantitative research (e.g., epidemiology).

In this opinion piece, we discuss the lack of adoption of preprint servers
in the biological sciences, make the argument for the value a preprint
culture in these disciplines, and discuss existing options for posting
biologically focused preprints.

Preprints are actively being discussed in high profile places as part of a
broader push towards a more open scientific process (e.g., [1-2]). In addition,
new preprint options have become available within the last year for
non-quantitative biological research. As such, now is the ideal time to make
to present the case for the use of preprints in biology.

For the sake of full disclosure we should point out that several of the authors
are involved as volunteers with some of the preprint (and preprint like)
servers mentioned in the article (Desjardins-Proulx at arXiv,  White at PeerJ,
and Gravel at Faculty of 1000). However there is no financial conflict of
interest.

// You need to say, in a few words, why the paper is suited to the journal,
who we want to adress with it, and why it is timely. Even if most of the infos
are already in the first paragraph, say it again.

We look forward to your decision.

Best regards,
On behalf of the authors,

Philippe Desjardins-Proulx
Theoretical Ecosystem Ecology laboratory, Université du Québec, Canada.

[1] http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v476/n7359/full/476145a.html
[2] http://www.nature.com/news/geneticists-eye-the-potential-of-arxiv-1.11091
